README.md, before:

# admin-on-rest [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/marmelab/admin-on-rest.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/marmelab/admin-on-rest)

A frontend Framework for building admin applications on top of REST services, using ES6, React and Material UI.

![admin-on-rest demo](http://static.marmelab.com/admin-on-rest.gif)

## Installation

Admin-on-rest is available from npm. You can install it (and its required dependencies)
using:

```sh
npm install --save-dev admin-on-rest
```

## Documentation

Head to [http://marmelab.com/admin-on-rest/](http://marmelab.com/admin-on-rest/) for a complete documentation. If you installed the library via npm, it's also available offline, under the `node_modules/admin-on-rest/docs/` directory.

## Example

```js
// in app.js
import React from 'react';
import { render } from 'react-dom';
import { simpleRestClient, Admin, Resource } from 'admin-on-rest';

import { PostList, PostEdit, PostCreate, PostIcon } from './posts';

render(
    <Admin restClient={simpleRestClient('http://localhost:3000')}>
        <Resource name="posts" list={PostList} edit={PostEdit} create={PostCreate} icon={PostIcon}/>
    </Admin>,
    document.getElementById('root')
);
```

The `<Resource>` component is a configuration component that allows to define sub components for each of the admin view: `list`, `edit`, and `create`. These components use Material UI and custom components from admin-on-rest:

```js

// in posts.js
import React from 'react';
import { List, Edit, Create, Datagrid, DateField, TextField, EditButton, DisabledInput, TextInput, LongTextInput, DateInput } from 'admin-on-rest/lib/mui';
export PostIcon from 'material-ui/svg-icons/action/book';

export const PostList = (props) => (
    <List {...props}>
        <Datagrid>
            <TextField source="id" />
            <TextField source="title" />
            <DateField source="published_at" />
            <TextField source="average_note" />
            <TextField source="views" />
            <EditButton basePath="/posts" />
        </Datagrid>
    </List>
);

const PostTitle = ({ record }) => {
    return <span>Post {record ? `"${record.title}"` : ''}</span>;
};

export const PostEdit = (props) => (
    <Edit title={PostTitle} {...props}>
        <DisabledInput source="id" />
        <TextInput source="title" />
        <TextInput source="teaser" options={{ multiLine: true }} />
        <LongTextInput source="body" />
        <DateInput label="Publication date" source="published_at" />
        <TextInput source="average_note" />
        <DisabledInput label="Nb views" source="views" />
    </Edit>
);

export const PostCreate = (props) => (
    <Create title="Create a Post" {...props}>
        <TextInput source="title" />
        <TextInput source="teaser" options={{ multiLine: true }} />
        <LongTextInput source="body" />
        <TextInput label="Publication date" source="published_at" />
        <TextInput source="average_note" />
    </Create>
);
```

## Configuring The REST Client

REST isn't a standard, so it's impossible to make a REST client library that will work for all REST backends. Admin-on-rest deals with this problem by letting you provide a REST client function. This is the place to translate REST requests to HTTP requests, and HTTP responses to REST responses.

The `<Admin>` component expects a `restClient` parameter, which is a function with the following signature:

```js
/**
 * Execute the REST request and return a promise for a REST response
 *
 * @example
 * restClient(GET_ONE, 'posts', { id: 123 })
 *  => new Promise(resolve => resolve({ data: { id: 123, title: "hello, world" } }))
 *
 * @param {string} type Request type, e.g GET_LIST
 * @param {string} resource Resource name, e.g. "posts"
 * @param {Object} payload Request parameters. Depends on the action type
 * @returns {Promise} the Promise for a REST response
 */
const restClient = (type, resource, params) => new Promise();
```

The expected format for REST requests and responses is documented in `src/rest/README.md`; you can find an example in `src/rest/simple.js`;

The `restClient` is also the ideal place to add custom HTTP headers, authentication, etc.

## Batteries Included But Removable

Although it's fast and easy to build an admin using the `<Admin>` and `<Resource>` components, it is also possible to include the admin logic into an *existing* React application. You are strongly encouraged to use the lower-level elements or admin-to-rest, provided you're familiar with Redux, react-router and redux-saga.

The library makes no assumption on the side effect library you want to use, but provides examples for redux-saga.

The side effects expected by admin-on-rest are AJAX calls to the REST backend(s), and redirects. They must respond to the following actions:

* CRUD_GET_LIST => CRUD_GET_LIST_SUCCESS
* CRUD_GET_ONE => CRUD_GET_ONE_SUCCESS
* CRUD_UPDATE => CRUD_UPDATE_SUCCESS
* CRUD_CREATE => CRUD_CREATE_SUCCESS
* CRUD_DELETE => CRUD_DELETE_SUCCESS

Check `sideEffect/saga.js` for a detail of the inputs and outputs

## Todo

* Add more documentation
* Improve error handling

Commit message:

Add instructions to run the example app
Closes #102

README.md, after:

# admin-on-rest [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/marmelab/admin-on-rest.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/marmelab/admin-on-rest)

A frontend Framework for building admin applications on top of REST services, using ES6, React and Material UI.

![admin-on-rest demo](http://static.marmelab.com/admin-on-rest.gif)

## Installation

Admin-on-rest is available from npm. You can install it (and its required dependencies)
using:

```sh
npm install --save-dev admin-on-rest
```

## Documentation

Head to [http://marmelab.com/admin-on-rest/](http://marmelab.com/admin-on-rest/) for a complete documentation. If you installed the library via npm, it's also available offline, under the `node_modules/admin-on-rest/docs/` directory.

## Example

```js
// in app.js
import React from 'react';
import { render } from 'react-dom';
import { simpleRestClient, Admin, Resource } from 'admin-on-rest';

import { PostList, PostEdit, PostCreate, PostIcon } from './posts';

render(
    <Admin restClient={simpleRestClient('http://localhost:3000')}>
        <Resource name="posts" list={PostList} edit={PostEdit} create={PostCreate} icon={PostIcon}/>
    </Admin>,
    document.getElementById('root')
);
```

The `<Resource>` component is a configuration component that allows to define sub components for each of the admin view: `list`, `edit`, and `create`. These components use Material UI and custom components from admin-on-rest:

```js

// in posts.js
import React from 'react';
import { List, Edit, Create, Datagrid, DateField, TextField, EditButton, DisabledInput, TextInput, LongTextInput, DateInput } from 'admin-on-rest/lib/mui';
export PostIcon from 'material-ui/svg-icons/action/book';

export const PostList = (props) => (
    <List {...props}>
        <Datagrid>
            <TextField source="id" />
            <TextField source="title" />
            <DateField source="published_at" />
            <TextField source="average_note" />
            <TextField source="views" />
            <EditButton basePath="/posts" />
        </Datagrid>
    </List>
);

const PostTitle = ({ record }) => {
    return <span>Post {record ? `"${record.title}"` : ''}</span>;
};

export const PostEdit = (props) => (
    <Edit title={PostTitle} {...props}>
        <DisabledInput source="id" />
        <TextInput source="title" />
        <TextInput source="teaser" options={{ multiLine: true }} />
        <LongTextInput source="body" />
        <DateInput label="Publication date" source="published_at" />
        <TextInput source="average_note" />
        <DisabledInput label="Nb views" source="views" />
    </Edit>
);

export const PostCreate = (props) => (
    <Create title="Create a Post" {...props}>
        <TextInput source="title" />
        <TextInput source="teaser" options={{ multiLine: true }} />
        <LongTextInput source="body" />
        <TextInput label="Publication date" source="published_at" />
        <TextInput source="average_note" />
    </Create>
);
```

## Configuring The REST Client

REST isn't a standard, so it's impossible to make a REST client library that will work for all REST backends. Admin-on-rest deals with this problem by letting you provide a REST client function. This is the place to translate REST requests to HTTP requests, and HTTP responses to REST responses.

The `<Admin>` component expects a `restClient` parameter, which is a function with the following signature:

```js
/**
 * Execute the REST request and return a promise for a REST response
 *
 * @example
 * restClient(GET_ONE, 'posts', { id: 123 })
 *  => new Promise(resolve => resolve({ data: { id: 123, title: "hello, world" } }))
 *
 * @param {string} type Request type, e.g GET_LIST
 * @param {string} resource Resource name, e.g. "posts"
 * @param {Object} payload Request parameters. Depends on the action type
 * @returns {Promise} the Promise for a REST response
 */
const restClient = (type, resource, params) => new Promise();
```

The expected format for REST requests and responses is documented in `src/rest/README.md`; you can find an example in `src/rest/simple.js`;

The `restClient` is also the ideal place to add custom HTTP headers, authentication, etc.

## Contributing

You can run the example app by calling

```sh
make run
```

And then browse to [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/).

If you want to contribute to the documentation, install jekyll, then call

```sh
make doc
```

And then browse to [http://localhost:4000/](http://localhost:4000/)

You can run the unit tests by calling

```sh
make test
```

Pull requests are welcome. Try to follow the coding style of the existing files, and to add unit tests to prove that your patch does what it says.

## License

Admin-on-rest is licensed under the [MIT Licence](LICENSE), and sponsored by [marmelab](http://marmelab.com).
