docs/Ecosystem.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Ecosystem"
---

# Ecosystem

- [Inputs and Fields](#inputs-and-fields)
- [Translations](#translations)
- [Rest clients](#rest-clients)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

## Inputs and Fields

- [dreinke/aor-color-input](https://github.com/dreinke/aor-color-input): a color input using [React Color](http://casesandberg.github.io/react-color/), a collection of color pickers.
- [LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input](https://github.com/LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input): a TinyMCE component, useful for editing HTML
- [marmelab/aor-dependent-input](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-dependent-input): conditionnaly display inputs depending on other inputs values

## Translations

See the [translation](./Translation.md#available-locales) page.

## Rest clients

- [marmelab/aor-simple-graphql-client](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-simple-graphql-client): a GraphQL client using [Apollo](http://www.apollodata.com/)
- [marmelab/aor-json-rest-client](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-json-rest-client): a local REST client based on a JavaScript object. It doesn't even use HTTP. Use it for testing purposes.
- [tomberek/aor-postgrest-client](https://github.com/tomberek/aor-postgrest-client): a REST client for [Postgrest](http://postgrest.com/en/v0.4/) client
- [josx/aor-feathers-client](https://github.com/josx/aor-feathers-client): a REST client using [Feathersjs](http://www.feathersjs.com/)
- [kimkha/aor-loopback](https://github.com/kimkha/aor-loopback): a REST client works with [Loopback](http://loopback.io/)
- [leperone/aor-parseserver-client](https://github.com/leperone/aor-parseserver-client): a REST client for [Parse Server](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server)
- [moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client](https://github.com/moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client): a REST client for [JSON API](http://jsonapi.org/)

## Miscellaneous

- [marmelab/aor-permissions](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-permissions): customize UI depending on user's persmissions
- [marmelab/aor-realtime](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-realtime): enable realtime updates

Commit message:

Added aor-embedded-array and aor-rest-client-router

docs/Ecosystem.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Ecosystem"
---

# Ecosystem

- [Inputs and Fields](#inputs-and-fields)
- [Translations](#translations)
- [Rest clients](#rest-clients)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

## Inputs and Fields

- [dreinke/aor-color-input](https://github.com/dreinke/aor-color-input): a color input using [React Color](http://casesandberg.github.io/react-color/), a collection of color pickers.
- [LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input](https://github.com/LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input): a TinyMCE component, useful for editing HTML
- [marmelab/aor-dependent-input](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-dependent-input): conditionnaly display inputs depending on other inputs values
- [mhdsyrwan/aor-embedded-array](https://github.com/MhdSyrwan/aor-embedded-array): Field and Input for representing embedded arrays.

## Translations

See the [translation](./Translation.md#available-locales) page.

## Rest clients

- [marmelab/aor-simple-graphql-client](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-simple-graphql-client): a GraphQL client using [Apollo](http://www.apollodata.com/)
- [marmelab/aor-json-rest-client](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-json-rest-client): a local REST client based on a JavaScript object. It doesn't even use HTTP. Use it for testing purposes.
- [tomberek/aor-postgrest-client](https://github.com/tomberek/aor-postgrest-client): a REST client for [Postgrest](http://postgrest.com/en/v0.4/) client
- [josx/aor-feathers-client](https://github.com/josx/aor-feathers-client): a REST client using [Feathersjs](http://www.feathersjs.com/)
- [kimkha/aor-loopback](https://github.com/kimkha/aor-loopback): a REST client works with [Loopback](http://loopback.io/)
- [leperone/aor-parseserver-client](https://github.com/leperone/aor-parseserver-client): a REST client for [Parse Server](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server)
- [moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client](https://github.com/moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client): a REST client for [JSON API](http://jsonapi.org/)
- [mhdsyrwan/aor-rest-client-router](https://github.com/MhdSyrwan/aor-rest-client-router): a REST client that enables routing to many restClients based on resource name.

## Miscellaneous

- [marmelab/aor-permissions](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-permissions): customize UI depending on user's persmissions
- [marmelab/aor-realtime](https://github.com/marmelab/aor-realtime): enable realtime updates
